
                              PICTURESQUE
                                GERMANY

                             First Series


[Illustration: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe / born at Francfort on the
Main, August 28, 1749 / died at Weimar, March 22, 1832 / Painting by
Karl Joseph Stieler in the New Pinacothek, Munich / Photograph by Piloty
and Löhle, Munich]


[Illustration: The Poet’s Room in the castle at Weimar / Bust of
Frederick von Schiller on the right / Photograph by Louis Held, Weimar]


[Illustration: Picturesque spot in Frankfort on the Main / Saalgasse
(Saal Street) with the Holy Ghost Fountain. In the background can be
seen the tower of the Cathedral, the foundation of which was laid in
874 / Photograph by the National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]


[Illustration: A monument from the time of the Roman Emperors in
Germany / The “Porta nigra” at Treves (Trier) on the Moselle, a Roman
gateway dating from the 4th century / Photograph by the National
Messbildanstalt, Berlin]


[Illustration: The golden portal of the Cathedral at Freiberg in
Saxony / Ruins of the former Church of our Lady. About 1230 / The
absolute climax in the development of the Romanesque Portal, which
produced so much of rare beauty (Dehio) / The style of this creation is
of the most perfect delicacy and charm (Lübke) / Partial view from a
photograph by the National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]


[Illustration: The Pillar of Justice with the Bronze Lion on the
Burgplatz in Brunswick (Braunschweig) / Erected by Henry the Lion in
1166 / Photograph by the National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]


[Illustration: A jewel of German Gothic architecture in freestone / The
Town-hall at Münster, Westphalia, built about 1350 / Photograph by Dr.
Erwin Quedenfeldt, Düsseldorf]


[Illustration: The Cathedral at Spires (Speyer) / As the burial place
of many monarchs, it represents a monument of German history / View of
the magnificent crypt of the Cathedral. The edifice founded in 1030 by
Conrad II, was destroyed several times but finally rebuilt by King
Maximilian I of Bavaria, consecrated in 1822 and completed in 1858 /
From a photograph by Professor Neeb, Mainz]


[Illustration: Hall in Benrath Castle near Düsseldorf / Built by
Nikolaus de Pigage for Elector Karl Theodor of the Palatinate / The
interior represents a graceful link between the Rococo and the Classic /
From a photograph by the National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]


[Illustration: Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller, born at Marbach
on the Neckar, November 10, 1759, died at Weimar, May 9, 1805 / From the
painting by Anton Graff in the Körner Museum, Dresden / Photograph by R.
Tamme, Dresden, successor of F. and O. Brockmann]


[Illustration: Courtyard of the Old Castle in Stuttgart / The
architectural climax of the Residence of the Württemberg Princes,
re-constructed since 1553 by Alberlin Tretsch assisted by Blasius and
Martin Berwart / Ludwig Hofer’s equestrian statue of Count Eberhard, the
Bearded, is in the courtyard / From a photograph by the
Techno-Photographischen Archivs Hans Herzberg, Berlin]


[Illustration: The Cathedral at Worms, founded in 1100, consecrated in
1181 / One of the finest specimens of Romanesque architecture in
Germany / From a photograph by the National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]


[Illustration: The Emperor’s Hall in the Residence at Wurzburg, the
most beautiful Castle in the Rococo style and one of the finest
specimens of 18th century architecture in Germany / The masterpiece of
Johann Balthasar Neumann (1687-1753) / The painting in the Hall, “The
Marriage of the Emperor Barbarossa” was executed by G. B. Tiepolo /
Photograph by K. Gundermann, Wurzburg]


[Illustration: Court in the Castle at Heidelberg / View of the portion
built by Otto Heinrich, begun in 1556, completed in 1563 / The
masterpiece of the German Renaissance / Creation of Hans Engelhardt /
With the permission of Edm. von König Co, Inc. Heidelberg]


[Illustration: Immanuel Kant, born at Königsberg, East Prussia, April
22, 1724, died at Königsberg, February 12, 1804 / From the painting by
Döbler / Reprint from the “Corpus Imaginum” of the Photographischen
Gesellschaft, Charlottenburg.]


[Illustration: Beautiful embodiment of different styles of period
architecture / The Elizabeth Church in Breslau (founded in 1253) and its
surroundings / The tower of the Church is 91 meters high / From a
photograph by Waldemar Titzenthaler, Berlin]


[Illustration: Masterpiece of Gothic architecture in brick in Northern
Germany / The Holstentor (Holsten Gate) in Lübeck, built by Hinrich
Helmsted, 1470-1477, an imposing monument of the architecture of civic
fortifications / From a photograph by the National Messbildanstalt,
Berlin]


[Illustration: Johann Sebastian Bach, born at Eisenach, March 21, 1685,
died at Leipzig, July 28, 1750 / From the painting by Johann Jakob
Ihle / Reprint from the Corpus Imaginum of the Photographischen
Gesellschaft, Charlottenburg]


[Illustration: The contest of the Minnesingers at the Wartburg / Part
of the fresco in the Castle of the Wartburg in Eisenach, Thuringia,
painted in 1855 by Moritz von Schwind / The Landgravine Elizabeth,
before whom is kneeling Heinrich von Ofterdingen, is painted in the
likeness of the Grand Duchess Amalie of Weimar (1739-1807) the patroness
and protector of German poesy in Weimar]


[Illustration: Portion of the Choir stalls in the Cathedral Church at
Ulm / One of the most perfect and beautiful of the old Gothic Choir
stalls in Germany / Carved in oak. Masterpiece of the elder Jörg Syrlin,
1469-1474 / Photograph by the Münsterbauamt in Ulm]


[Illustration: Ludwig van Beethoven, born at Bonn on the Rhine,
December 16, 1770, died in Vienna, March 26, 1827 / The Beethoven Statue
by Max Klinger in the Municipal Museum at Leipzig / With the permission
of E. A. Seemann Co, Leipzig]


[Illustration: The library in the former residence of the Electors at
Mannheim, built in 1720-1759 by Nikolaus de Pigage / Splendid specimen
of a masterpiece of the Baroque period / From a photograph by Josef
Kuld, Mannheim]


[Illustration: Monument of the young Goethe in the Naschmarkt (Nasch
Market) in Leipzig, work of Karl Seffner / In commemoration of the
poet’s student days in Leipzig, 1765-1768 / Behind the monument is the
old Exchange, a delightful specimen of the Baroque style dating from
1678]


[Illustration: Richard Wagner, born at Leipzig, May 22, 1813, died in
Venice, February 13, 1883 / From the painting by Franz von Lenbach /
Reprint from the Corpus Imaginum of the Photographischen Gesellschaft,
Charlottenburg]


[Illustration: Town-hall and Market Church at Hannover / The Church was
completed in 1359, the Town-hall for the most part, dates from the year
1453-1455 / Photograph by the Techno-Photographischen Archiv Hans
Herzberg, Berlin]


[Illustration: From the golden period of the German Renaissance / The
winding staircase in the Gulden Chamber of the Town-hall at Bremen / A
masterpiece of wood-carving dating from 1616 / From a photograph by the
National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]


[Illustration: View of the Cathedral at Limburg on the Lahn /
Beautifully picturesque edifice (1213-1242) / Most brilliant monument of
the Rhenisch transition style / From a photograph by the National
Messbildanstalt, Berlin]


[Illustration: Nuremberg, the city of the Minnesingers / The Church of
Our Lady (1355-1361) / In front of the Church is the Beautiful Fountain,
an exquisite creation of old Nuremberg plastic, erected in 1385-1396
under the direction of Heinrich dem Palier / From a photograph by M.
Stich, Nuremberg]


[Illustration: Albrecht Dürer, born at Nuremberg, May 21, 1471, died in
Nuremberg, April 6, 1528 / Artist’s portrait of himself, 1500, now in
the Old Pinakothek, Munich]


[Illustration: View of the Cathedral Church at Freiburg in Breisgau
(Baden) / The nave begun in 1250 / The earliest and most perfect Gothic
tower with pyramid of perforated masonery, existing in Germany / From a
photograph by G. Röbecke, Freiburg in Breisgau]


[Illustration: The Gold Room in the Town-hall at Augsburg / Built by
Elias Holl in 1615-1620 / A magnificent and effective masterpiece of the
late Renaissance period / From a photograph by Fritz Höfle, Augsburg]


[Illustration: The Cathedral at Regensburg, begun in 1275, completed in
1869 / The rich facade with the three cornered vestibule executed by
Lybhart the Mynner, 1385-1395 / From a photograph by M. Stich,
Nuremberg]


[Illustration: Adolf von Menzel, born at Breslau, December 8, 1815,
died in Berlin, February 9, 1905 / Mission Service in the Beech Hall
near Kösen (1868) / With the permission of F. Bruckmann Co, Munich]


[Illustration: A bit of classic Berlin / The Museum Island / View of
the National Gallery / Built in 1866-1876 by Joh. Heinrich Strack and
Georg Gustav Erbkam from the designs of Stüler / From a photograph by W.
Titzenthaler, Berlin]


[Illustration: The most beautiful specimen of an early Gothic cloister
in Germany / The Cistercian Cloister Maulbronn in Württemberg,
reconstructed in 1201 / The so-called “Hell stairway” in the Cloister /
From a photograph by August Krüger, Maulbronn]


[Illustration: The Zwinger (bastion) at Dresden / Court surrounded by
six pavilions joined together by galleries. / A wonder-work of German
Baroque, built 1711-1722 by Matthäus Daniel Pöppelmann (born at Dresden
in 1662, died in Dresden in 1736) / With the permission of the Neuen
Photographischen Gesellschaft, Berlin-Steglitz]


[Illustration: From the golden period of commerce in the German
Moyenage / The Artus or Junker Court in Dantzig, the festival hall of
the Dantzig merchants / Master Heinrich Holzapfel of Cologne finished
the magnificent stalls of the Hall in 1531 / From a photograph by the
National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]


[Illustration: The crown of Gothic architecture in Germany / The
Cathedral at Cologne on the Rhine / Begun in 1248 under Gerhard von
Rile; restoration in 1842 under Zwirner, completed in 1880 by Voigtel /
From a photograph by the National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]


[Illustration: Wilhelm Leibl, born at Cologne on the Rhine, October 23,
1844, died in Würzburg, December 4, 1900 / “Dachauer Peasant Women”
(1875), hanging in the National Gallery, Berlin / With the permission of
the Photographischen Gesellschaft, Charlottenburg]


[Illustration: The Bavaria in front of the Hall of Fame in Munich /
Erected by King Ludwig I, 1843-1853 / The Hall of Fame built by Leo von
Klenze, the colossal statue of the Bavaria modeled by Schwanthaler, cast
by Ferdinand Miller / From a photograph by Jaeger and Görgen, Munich]


[Illustration: Late Gothic architecture in Saxony / The Albrecht Castle
in Meissen / Built by Master Arnold in 1471 / The Cathedral erected on
the summit in 1260-1450 / From a photograph by Waldemar Titzenthaler,
Berlin]


[Illustration: The celebrated marble-bath pavilion of Pierre Francois
Monnot in the Aue (Meadow) at Cassel / The Castle consists of the
Orangery, built by the Hugenot, Paul Dury, 1701-1711, the castle built
in 1765 and the bath, completed in 1728 / From a photograph by the
National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]


[Illustration: Lichtenstein Castle near Reutlingen in Württemberg /
Built in 1841 by Heideloff on the site of the old citadel, Lichtenstein,
made famous by Wilhelm Hauff’s romance / From a photograph by Ludwig
Schaller, Stuttgart]


[Illustration: Karlsruhe in Baden, the birthplace of Viktor von
Scheffel / Glimpse of the center of the town-hall on the market-place
through the pillars of the Protestant Church / Built by Fr. Weinbrenner
in the beginning of the 19th century / From a photograph by the
Badischen Denkmäler-Archivs Kratt, Karlsruhe]


The Choir in the Cathedral at Magdeburg / The Choir, begun in 1208, is
the earliest specimen of Gothic architecture in Germany. Nave
consecrated in 1363 / From a photograph by the National Messbildanstalt,
Berlin


[Illustration: Picturesque view on the German shores of the North Sea /
In the harbor at Hamburg / From a photograph by Schaul, Hamburg]


[Illustration: The Karl frescoes in the Town-hall at Aix-la-Chapelle
(Aachen) / Painted by Alfred Rethel in 1840-1862 / Head of the dead
Emperor from the fresco “Visit of Otto III to the Grave of Karl the
Great” / Sketch in the cabinet of Engravings at Dresden]



                                 Title
                            and decorations
                      by Julius Nitsche, Munich /
             Etchings by F. Bruckmann, Graphische Anstalt,
 Munich / Paper from the Scheufelen Paper Factory, Oberlenningen-Teck,
                     Württemberg / Two-tone prints
                    by E. T. Gleitsmann, Dresden /
                        Printed by Carl Gerber,
                                Munich



PICTURESQUE
GERMANY

First Series


The following are in course of preparation: Second Series: German
Industries / Third Series: German Landscapes / Fourth Series: German
Spas / Fifth Series: German Museums etc. / All these volumes may be
obtained at the place as Series 1





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Picturesque Germany, by Anonymous

